# python-with-sqlite3-for-crm
A CRM tool to manage the customer transactions with the help of the sqlite3 database

### Overview:
This console-based application enables the user to manage the customer-related business transactions with a company. The User can create, update and delete the transaction. This application can be also be converted to an executable, by using the installer.

### Packages :
**sqlite3:**  A database used to store the customer-related transactions.    
**prettytable:** To make the data viewable in an organized, well presented, tabular format.    
**re:** To validate the input data entered by the end-user into the application. The regular expression validation is done using this package.     
**textwrap:** This helps in making the tabular data readable by formatting and wrapping the text based on the need.    
**cx_Freeze:** Creates an executable version of the application. A Windows installer can also be generated by using this package.

### File Description :
**CRMv2.py :** Source code holding complete logic to insert,update,delete,retrieve the customer transactions. The database schema is defined in this code.      
**setup.py:** Contains logic to Build executable file. Both the standalone windows installer and the package of an executable is created with this file.      
**CRM.ico:** Icon file for the executable application.     
**customerdetailsd.db:** Database file which stores all the customer data handled through the console-based application.    
**dist folder:** This folder contains the windows installer that is being generated.   
**build.zip:** Contains the executable of the application along with all the supporting files.   

### Commands to create executable:
*python setup.py build* - Builds the executable under 'build' folder      
*python setup.py bdist_msi*  - Build a simple installer containing all the files to run on windows under 'dist' folder           

### Application Functionality:
-- Creates a database 'cusdatadb' if not already present.   
-- Option 1, Gathers all the customer transaction-related data, validates the data by matching with the regular expression and inserts it into the database.   
-- Option 2, Retrieve the transaction based on the criteria selected by the end-user.             
-- Option 3, Retrieves all the records in the database.        
-- Option 4, Updates the record based on the criteria selected by the end-user.     
-- Option 5, Deletes a particular record in the transaction based on the selection by the end-user.       
-- Option 6, Deletes all the records in the transaction.      
-- Option 7, Exits the console-based application.        

